# DataAnalysis_DataScience
Some of the work I have been doing in the last years

* `AddToBasket_Analysis.ipynb`. In my old group, we used to send a *lot* of newsletters per week. At some point we asked ourselves whether the time of the day and the day of the week were optimal or there could have been some better choice. This script tries to visually settle the question. After the acquisition of the raw data, an A/B test was the obvious next step.  
The raw data were collected using query called `query` from a data warehouse table in which the web shop behaviour was collected. We were interested in  "add-to-basket" events. We then looked at the amount of such events for the different hours of the day and the days of the week (the heatmap in greyscale). We performed the analysis for all the customers, for the customer recipient of a newsletter ("Nur NL Daten"), for those who were *not* newsletter recipients ("Nicht NL-Daten"). A comparison suggested us a couple of educated guesses about where to perform the A/B tests.

* `CrossSelling_Analysis.ipynb`. New customer acquisition is always an important issue for marketers.  
We wanted to better understand how a new customer behaves and possibly try to forecast the next move to support him/her in their next buy. The basic idea of the analysis is to use the `apriori` algorithm and to adapt it for the present case. Cross-selling behaviour.   
The `query` collects the relevant data from a Hadoop cluster via an Impala interface. After some data cleaning, I sort out the new customers from the rest. I then calculate the how many `buy`-event happened for every shopping-category (`sgf`). The next step is to calculate how many `buy`-events for the shopping category `two` in the second buy ("SGF beim zweiten Kauf") given that the customer in the first buy got something from the shopping category `one` ("SGF beim ersten Kauf"). This is an actionable knowledge: every time I have a new customer buys items from a certain category I will be able to send an email recommending the items from the most likely categories.  
Another problem is addressed in the last part of the notebook: given that the new customer made today the first buy, when should I attract his/her attention with incentives? The plot suggests that if the new customer doesn't buy again after the first 20 days-25, the next buy will be more and more unlikely. The retoures were removed from the data and they had hardly an influence on the final plot.
